# 500px-Assessment

The first decision I had to make was wheter to include any outside libraries in this project and I decided to use Alomafire
as I still believe it is much easier to use than URLSession. Its a well supported and robust library so there's
no need to worry about their team dropping it any time soon. The next challenge I faced was storing the API key, right now I went with the solution of keeping it in a textfile and reading it when the app launches. This solution solves the problem of not storing the API key in the project itself but I still think there could a better solution. The next step was create the needed models and populate them, I started with the PopularPhotos and Photo models. The next big challenge I faced was to choose the architecture I wanted to use and I went with MVVM because its very easy to use and is a perfect fit for this particular app, also because I would love to use RXSwift with this app and MVVM and Rx go really well together. The next challenge, and most important one, was to download the images onyl once and also have a smooth scrolling tableview, and the easiest way to accomplish that was use use Operations and an OperationQueue. There is some commented out code you will see which adds functionality to suspend the downloading of images while the user is scrolling and starts again when they stop, this is to only load the images they want to see rather than using resources to download images they have scrolled past. I'm still unsure whether I like how it behaves and would to love to hear your feedback. After that was done I had to figure out how I wanted to handle pagination. I'm most comfortable with using a control where users can click through pages but that is very outdated for photo applications. I completed a tutorial on infinite scrolling, using UITableViewDataSourcePrefetching,
and implemented that in my app and the user experince is much better than clicking through pages. Now I started the second task of the assignment which was the fullscreen view for photos. I tried different presentation methods and the one I liked the most of the new iOS 13 modals. This is because it gave me enoguh real estate to present the image full screen but also it can be dismissed very easily with a swipe. That not only saved time for implementing a dismiss method but also lets user use the app with one hand because they can go back to the photos list by swiping down. The only concern I have with this modal is how it will behave when I have to add the ability to add comments and read the photo description. My rudimentary solution would be to animate the bottom bar (detailsView) to slide up to give space for the comments and description. The next steps were mostly refactoring and tweaking the UI till I liked it. I also included sample tests for the main PhotoViewModel and a top bar with buttons for functionality I think would be good!
